Website	http://gvpce.ac.in


Gayatri Vidhya Parishad
The Gayatri Vidya Parishad College of Engineering(Autonomous) or GVPCE is a private, co-education engineering institute established in the year 1996 , The educational trust, Gayatri Vidya Parishad (GVP) is formed, managed and promoted by academicians, philanthropists and technocrats in Visakhapatnam, India. The college offers instruction to 1200, The institution also offers Master of Computer Applications program affiliated to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Kakinada. All the under graduation programs are accredited by NBA in 2006[9] The college also offers 13 Postgraduate education programs, where the candidates are selected based on the marks secured in Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering. The institute is accredited by
All India Council for Technical Education(AICTE) and re-accredited by National Assessment and Accreditation Council by 'A' grade with a CGPA of 3.47/4.00. Along with this, the college is sanctioned the extension of autonomy until 2020 by University Grants Commission (India).

Location
The campus is located in Madhurawada, on the outskirts of the city of Visakhapatnam. The institute is well accessible via NH16 with the nearest Railway station and Airport situated in Visakhapatnam. The resources in the campus include a post office, student service center, a stationery shop, canteen and banking facilities operating on their respective timings.[10]

Library
The library is names as 'Prof B Sarvesvara Rao Library' named after the former president of Gayatri Vidya Parishad, Emeritus Professor of Economics of Andhra University and Economic Adviser to the Government of Nigeria. The library is well equipped with modern facilities and resources in the form of CD / DVD -ROMs, Video Cassettes. Online Databases, Micro Documents, Video Cassettes, Books, Journals Thesis, Project Reports, Back Volume of Journals, Video Lessons from NPTEL.[11] The library being a member of AICTE-INDEST consortium under the aegis of the Ministry of Human Resource and Development provides online access to IEL/IEEE, ASME, ACSE, Science Direct and DOAJ Journals through DELNET and houses 9,200 titles, 34,000 volumes, 130 national journals, 70 international journals and a digital library in which students can access 240 IEEE journals and 600 other journals through the Springer Science+Business Media Engineering Data Unit.

Medical Facility
The Health Care center is located within the campus with a resident doctor available during the college hours for both students and staff. The emergency ambulance services are available around the clock with emergency cases treated at GVP Institute of Health Care and Medical Technology[12] located at a distance of 4 kilometers from the campus.[13]

Hostel Facility
GVP has separate hostel facilities for boys and girls well equipped with all amenities, All the hostels have their own cooking and dining rooms supervised by different in-charges and only serves Vegetarian cuisine.[14]

Sports
The institution provides has both indoor and outdoor sporting facilities[15] with a multi-station gym, table tennis hall, 200m track for athletics inclusive of Football and Cricket turfs. Apart from them, Cricket practicing nets, tennis, Volleyball,basketball, Throwball, Tennikoit courts are available for the students.

Transportation
The college provides transportation facilities through own buses for both students and staff from the city. During working days, multiple trips towards the city are facilitated for the students who are involved in extra-curricular activities or additional coursework.

Consultancies

Gayatri college of Engineering
The Industrial Consultancy Research and Development (ICRD) centre was developed in 2001 to strengthen the college's industry-institute relationship. Earnings for consultancy have reached Rs. 200 million. Some faculty members and their students are associated with private companies (such as General Electric and with the central government's NAHI. The college has been selected by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University from its 180 affiliated colleges to be a nodal center (with constituent colleges at Kakinada, Anantapur and Hyderabad) to offer a part-time contact-cum-correspondence course (CCC) leading to a BTech degree. The school has been selected by the government of Andhra Pradesh to be the implementing agency for the Indo-German Institute of Advanced Technology (IGIAT) at Visakhapatnam (an institute for advanced training supported by the governments of Andhra Pradesh and Germany through the latter's funding agency, GTZ).

Students and ranking
Several classes of students have graduated. The overall pass percentage of the students who have graduated has been about 94 percent (of which 45 percent received distinctions, and 35 percent received first class). The college has received several university ranks (including first ranks). GVP College of Engineering students have performed well in national and international graduate-level competitive examinations. Ranks of 2, 3 and 4 in national-level exams (such as the GATE) are common.

The college conducts symposiums and national-level paper-presentation events, with aid from nearby industries. The college has a good job-placement record. Third- and fourth-year students are matched with software companies such as TechM, Yahoo!, TCS, Wipro, Infosys, Solivar and IBM, and into core companies such as ITC and Larsen & Toubro. About 90 percent of eligible candidates are placed each year.

Students have also done well in extra- and co-curricular activities; several have represented JNT University in inter-university tournaments and won medals in national games. A student chapter of the Indian Society for Technical Education was formed in 2003.
